FOR WEBSITE

(HOME PAGE) 
Brief Summary:
Dr. Bulelani Jili is an Assistant Professor at Georgetown University, a Visiting Fellow at Yale Law School, and a Fellow at New America. His research examines Africa-China relations, AI governance, cybersecurity, postcolonial theory, and the political economy of emerging technologies. His work has appeared in African Affairs, Nature, Theory, Culture & Society, The Economist, the Financial Times, and other scholarly and public-facing outlets. He has also advised leading think tanks, governments, firms, and watchdogs such as the American Bar Association, OpenAI, the French government, Freedom House, the UK's Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, the US State Department, and the United Nations. He has received fellowships and awards from the Wenner-Gren Foundation, Yenching Scholarship, Meta Research PhD Fellowship, and International Strategy Forum. He holds a Ph.D. from Harvard University. 

(ABOUT PAGE) 

Full Summary: 

Dr. Bulelani Jili is an assistant professor at Georgetown University, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, where he is part of the African Studies Program and an affiliate of the Science, Technology, and International Affairs (STIA) Program. His research interests include Africa-China relations, cybersecurity, ICT development, African political economy, internet policy, Chinese business law, law and development, and privacy law. 
He is also a visiting fellow at Yale Law School, a former fellow at the Atlantic Council, and a former cybersecurity fellow at the Belfer Center at Harvard University. He also conducted research for the China, Law, and Development project at Oxford University. The European Research Council funds the 5-year interdisciplinary and multi-sited research project, which seeks to comprehend the underlying order of China's new globalism. He has also advised leading think tanks, governments, firms, and watchdogs such as the American Bar Association, OpenAI, the French government, Freedom House, the UK's Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, the US State Department, the United Nations, and the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
His writing has appeared in leading think tanks and journals around the world, including African Affairs, Nature, Theory, Culture & Society, Mail & Guardian, Africa is a Country, The Elephant, South China Morning Post, African Centre for Strategic Studies, Politico, Lawfare, Tech Policy Press, The Economist, and Financial Times. He is also a regular panelist and speaker at international conferences, including those in South Africa, South Korea, India, Switzerland, and Australia. 
He is the recipient of numerous honors, including the Wenner-Gren Dissertation Fieldwork Fellowship, Berkman Klein Fellowship, Meta Research Ph.D. Fellowship, Google Public Policy Fellowship, International Strategy Forum award, Oppenheimer Graduate Fellowship Fund, and Orrick Fellowship.
Bulelani Jili earned his Ph.D. from Harvard University. He also earned an M.Phil. from Cambridge University (UK), where he studied as a Standard Bank Africa Chairman’s Scholar. He received a Yenching Scholarship in 2016 to study at the Yenching Academy of Peking University (China), where he earned an M.A. in Economics. He took an A.B. with honors in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics (College of Social Studies) from Wesleyan University (CT), where he was a Pfeiffer Scholar. 
He lives in Washington, DC. 

Download CV


(HOME PAGE) 

Awards and Accolades: 

Quote from Eric Olander, Editor in Chief of the China-Global South Project: “He writes the most insightful work on these issues” (Chinese surveillance technology in Africa).

2023. Google Public Policy Fellow (4/2023)

2024. International Strategy Forum Fellowship (7/2024)

2023. Pacific Telecommunication Council Emerging Scholar Program (10/2023)

2022. Meta Research PhD Fellowship Award (2/2022) 

2022.  Wenner-Gren Foundation Fellowship (4/2022) 

2022. Electronic Privacy Information Center Fellowship (6/2022) 


2022. Harvard Law School, Institute for Global Law and Policy Fellowship (10/2022) 

2021. Belfer Center Cybersecurity Fellowship (3/2021) 

2016. Yenching Scholarship (2/2016)

2017. Standard Bank Africa Chairman’s Scholarship Award (6/2017)

2022 Foresight Fellowship (11/2022) 

2020. Julian Bond Research Travel Fund (5/ 2020) 

2021. Harvard Law School, Orrick Fellowship (11/2021) 



(PUBLICATION PAGE) 
Publications: 
Peer Reviewed Articles

 Jili, Bulelani. (2023). A Technological Fix: The Adoption of Chinese Public Security Systems. Georgetown Journal of International Affairs.
Skebba, Jacob, Liu, Ava, Germanao, Marco, & Jili, Bulelani. (2022). Digital Surveillance Trends and Chinese Influence in Light of the COVID-19 Pandemic in Asia. Asian Journal of Comparative Law, 1–31.
Jili, Bulelani. (2022). Africa: Regulate Surveillance Technologies and Personal Data. Nature, 445–448.
Jili, Bulelani. (2022). Chinese ICT and Smart City Initiatives in Kenya. Asia Policy, 17(3), 40–50.
Guo, Li & Jili, Bulelani. (2018). The Emergence of Guiding Cases in China. Peking University Law Journal, 6(2), 273–281.
Book Chapter 

Jili, Bulelani. (2022). The Spread of Chinese Surveillance Tools in Africa: A Focus on Ethiopia and Kenya. In Africa–Europe Cooperation and Digital Transformation (pp. 32–49). Routledge.


Book Reviews 

Jili, Bulelani. (2021). China, Africa, and the Future of the Internet. African Affairs. Oxford University Press. 

Jili, Bulelani. (2021). Black Pain and Disentanglements. Theory, Culture & Society. London, UK.


Research and Policy Briefs

Jili, Bulelani. (2023). What Is Driving the Adoption of Chinese Surveillance Technology in Africa? Atlantic Council Primer. Washington, DC. Retrieved from https://dfrlab.org/2023/05/15/africas-demand-for-and-adoption-of-chinese-surveillance-technology/#us-china 

•	Cited in the Committee on Homeland Security, U.S. Congress
•	Cited in the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, US Congress 

 Jili, Bulelani. (2022). China’s Surveillance Ecosystem & the Global Spread of Its Tools. Atlantic Council Primer. Washington, DC. Retrieved from https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/in-depth-research-reports/issue-brief/chinese-surveillance-ecosystem-and-the-global-spread-of-its-tools/ 


The Rise of Chinese Surveillance Technology in Africa Series – Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC), 2022
Jili, Bulelani. (2022). The Use of Black Faces in Facial Recognition Systems. EPIC.
https://epic.org/the-rise-of-chinese-surveillance-technology-in-africa/
Jili, Bulelani. (2022). The Push Factors of China’s Domestic Surveillance Market. EPIC.
https://epic.org/the-rise-of-chinese-surveillance-technology-in-africa-2/
ili, Bulelani. (2022). China’s Intelligence Law and Zhong Lun Declaration. EPIC.
https://epic.org/the-rise-of-chinese-surveillance-technology-in-africa-part-3-of-6/
Jili, Bulelani. (2022). Safe City Initiative in Kenya. EPIC.
https://epic.org/the-rise-of-chinese-surveillance-technology-in-africa-part-4-of-6/
Jili, Bulelani. (2022). Personal Data Vulnerabilities in Africa. EPIC.
https://epic.org/the-rise-of-chinese-surveillance-technology-in-africa-part-5-of-6/
Jili, Bulelani. (2022). Regulatory Responses to the Spread of Surveillance Tools in Africa. EPIC.
https://epic.org/the-rise-of-chinese-surveillance-technology-in-africa-part-6-of-6/

Jili, Bulelani. (2020). Chinese Surveillance Tools in Africa. China, Law and Development Project, University of Oxford. Oxford, UK. Retrieved from https://cld.web.ox.ac.uk/file/678231

•	Featured in The Official Blog of Ambassador David H. Shinn, “Chinese surveillance tools in Africa,” August 2020.


Bulelani Jili’s work has been featured in a wide range of prominent outlets and institutions, including the IEEE ComSoc Technology Blog, Biometric Update, the Africa Center for Strategic Studies, Lawfare, Voice of America, Business Insider, the Institute of China Studies, The China Global South Project, The Elephant, the Institute for Global Governance Research, Domino Theory, Rand Corporation, The Economist, the Financial Times, Oxford’s Blavatnik School of Government, Cambridge University Press, and Ambassador David H. Shinn’s official blog.


(EVENTS PAGE) 

Presentations:

Reframing Digital Trade in Africa: Agency, Dependency, and the China Question. Presentation at European University Institute, Fiesole, Italy, April 2025.

Between Dependency and Independence: African Agency Amid China's Expanding Digital Footprint in Africa. Presentation at Georgetown University, Georgetown, DC, April 2025. 

 Kenya’s Technological Fix. Presentation at the STS Circle meeting at Harvard Kennedy School, Cambridge, MA, November 2024. 

Tackling the Proliferation and Irresponsible use of Commercially available cyber intrusion 	capabilities. Consultation at The Pall Mall Process with United Kingdom and France governments, London UK, September 2024. 

Chinese surveillance tools as a technical fix in Africa. Lecture at Sydney Law School, Sydney, Australia, August 2024.

Digital Identity as DPI: Fostering trust, inclusion & adoption. Panel at ID4Africa, Cape Town, SA, May 2024. 

Global South, Geopolitics, and U.S, Europe, and China’s Competition to Influence Global AI Regulation. Co-convenor at Berkman Klein Center, Harvard Law School and Georgetown Law School, Cambridge, MA April 2024. 

China’s Digital Authoritarianism and Transnational Repression: Mapping Threats, Policy and Advocacy Responses. Presentation at RightsCon, Costa Rica, June 2023. 

China’s Surveillance Ecosystem & The Global Spread of Its Tools. Talk at Democracy Office of United States Agency for International Development, Nairobi, Kenya, May 2023. 

The Path Forward for Digital Regulation Across Africa. Presentation at US Statement Department, U.S.-Africa Leaders’ Summit (Science Track), Washington D.C., December 2022.

Acting responsibly in cyberspace. Presentation at UK Government’s Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, Wilton Park, West Sussex UK, November 2022. 

AI Surveillance tools in Kenya. Presentation at AI Policy Summit, ETH Zurich 	Center for Law and Economics, Zurich, Switzerland, October 2022. 

China’s Surveillance ecosystem and the global spread of its tools. Presentation at Information Society Project, Yale Law School, New Haven, September 2022. 

The Push and Pull factors of Chinese surveillance technologies. Presentation at Embassy of the United States of America to Kenya, US State Department, Nairobi, June 2022. 

The Push and Pull factors of Chinese surveillance tools in the Global South. Presentation at Hack the Capitol conference, Crowell & Moring LLP, DC, May 2022. 

Understanding and countering China's tech-enhanced surveillance state: actionable insights 	for policymakers. Presentation at MERICS and UK Government’s Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office, Berlin, April 2022. 

Susan Crawford Lecture, Use of Technology Course, Speaker at Harvard Law School, Cambridge, MA., March 2021.


(EVENTS PAGE)

Videos: 

The Africa-China Podcast, African Demand for Chinese Surveillance Technology: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=523&v=iFAIRpJZozQ&embeds_referring_euri=https%3A%2F%2Fbulelanijili.scholars.harvard.edu%2F&source_ve_path=MjM4NTE


Atlantic Council, The China-Global South Conference Panel: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=59&v=ODVCINHfrHY&embeds_referring_euri=https%3A%2F%2Fbulelanijili.scholars.harvard.edu%2F&source_ve_path=MjM4NTE


Berkman Klein Center, Global South, Geopolitics, and US, Europe, & China’s Competition to Influence Global AI regulation: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EHgqVJWBxtA&embeds_referring_euri=https%3A%2F%2Fbulelanijili.scholars.harvard.edu%2F&source_ve_path=MjM4NTE


Lawfare, Africa’s Demand for and Adoption of Chinese Surveillance Technologies:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etG6SKey2eA



(NEWS AND UPDATES PAGE) 

News & Media:

May 2025, “Africanising Chinese Surveillance Technology”, East Asia Forum 

November 2024, “Chinese Startups Supported by Microsoft and Google Incubator Programs Worked with Police”, Rest of World

February 2024, “China in the Global South: Development and Influence in a Shifting Global Order”, Atlantic Council 

October 2023, “Kenya Must Update its Regulatory Frameworks to Keep Pace with AI”, Tech Policy Press

June 2023, “How India is using Digital Technology to Project Power”, The Economist 

October 2022, “Is CISA Stretched Thin on Critical Infrastructure?”, Politico

December 2021, “Charting the Future of China’s Infrastructure Projects in Africa After a Decade of Lending”, Voice of America


December 2020, “The Spread of Surveillance Technology in Africa Stirs Security Concerns”, Africa Center for Strategic Studies 


April 2020, “Locating African Agency in Africa-China Relations”, Africa is a Country



(CONTACT PAGE) Stay Connected: 
Keep up to date by following Bulelani on LinkedIn. 



For questions and queries 

First Name                Last Name

Email Address
Phone Number
How did you hear about me?
How can I help you? 

New Deploy